Researcher Kanesa Duncan at the University
of Hawaii is studying Scalloped hammerheads.
She catches the sharks when they are just
pups, only a few weeks old, in Kaneohe Bay
on Oahu.
She uses a hand line and a barbless hook baited
with squid to catch the baby hammerheads.
By holding the shark upside down, she places
it in a kind of trance called Tonic Immobility.
Many sharks can be immobilized for handling
in this way.
Nobody knows why it works, but it makes shark
handling a lot easier.
She frequently puts the pup back in the water
to aerate the gills.
Once aboard the boat, she first measures the
shark while an assistant records
the data.
Next she implants a small visual tag with
a number on it through the shark's dorsal
fin.
This does not hurt the shark at all.
The fin is almost completely made of cartilage.
Next, she weighs the pup.
Finally, Duncan releases the baby hammerhead
back into the ocean.
Hopefully, she will catch it again in a few
months and be able to determine how much it
grew.